Donald Trump: How will the new US president impact on sport?
Donald Trump has swept to power in the US presidential election.
There's a lot of uncertainty over his policy plans and what they'll mean for America and for the world.
His victory will also have an impact on a range of sporting issues, including the US 2024 Olympic bid, the investigation into Fifa, the 2026 World Cup and the continued global expansion of American football, baseball and basketball.
Richard Conway looks at what the future might hold with President Trump in the White House.
What impact will President Trump have on the Los Angeles bid to host the 2024 Olympics and Paralympics?
Trump's victory could be highly significant for LA's hopes and could boost its main rival, Paris.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) is due to hold a vote to decide the host of the Games next September with Budapest the only other candidate.
Back in August, LA's mayor Eric Garcetti, a Democrat who supported Hillary Clinton, acknowledged IOC members had concerns over Trump.
"For us, I think IOC members might have said certain things," he said. "An America that turns inward, like any country that turns inward, isn't good for world peace, isn't good for progress, isn't good for all of us."
IOC president Thomas Bach also spoke in the summer about a "world of selfishness where certain people claim to be superior to others". That was seen as a clear reference to Trump's proposed plans that include potential restrictions on Muslim immigration and the deportation of millions of illegal immigrants.
Trump's plans may not sit well with IOC voters, drawn from a range of countries and cultures.
"They wonder, 'Is America going to take this strange turn?'" added Garcetti.
USA are clear favourites for the 2026 World Cup but will a Trump administration affect how it will be staged if it wins the bid?
There's no question that the US is in pole position for football's 2026 tournament.
Football's world governing body Fifa is deliberating over expanding the tournament to 40 or even 48 teams.
In tandem with that there's a definite shift in thinking within Fifa's leadership towards encouraging joint bids between countries.
The regional football chief, Victor Montagliani, has been careful to keep all options regarding some combination of a US/Mexico/Canada hosting arrangement on the table.
But what effect will Trump's plan to build a wall along the US border with Mexico - and to make them pay for it - have on relations between the two countries?
Trump's plan to deport illegal immigrants, his so-called "bad hombres", could also strain relations.
World Cup bids only succeed with firm government backing and solid financial guarantees. It's difficult to imagine there would be a friendly atmosphere of co-operation over a joint tournament with such big issues being argued over at senior levels within both governments.