Ron Dennis: How broken friendship led to McLaren exit after 35 years as boss
Somehow, Ron Dennis' departure from McLaren was no less shocking for knowing it was coming.
After all, this is a giant of both Formula 1 and British industry, who has been forced out, by his own partners, of the company he had built up. It is a company that had made him the most successful team boss in F1 history, and which is now one of the world's leading sportscar manufacturers.
It is a story with many aspects of a Greek tragedy: a great but flawed man losing the thing he cares about most, at least partly because of his own failings.
At its heart is the story of a broken friendship - between Dennis and fellow shareholder Mansour Ojjeh, who were close allies for three decades before they fell out a few years ago.
Why? There are stories buzzing around the F1 paddock about it, including one that many of those close to the situation believe to be true but which cannot be detailed here.
One thing is clear, however. It got very personal between the two of them before Ojjeh finally won the battle.
In truth, it is not hard to see how someone could fall out with Dennis.
Undoubtedly a brilliant man, he is also an intensely complex personality: generous and loyal on the one hand, gauche and arrogant on the other. He can also be disarmingly charming, amusing and self-deprecating.
Asked about the merit of the Norman Foster-designed McLaren Technology Centre, which opened in 2003 and cost hundreds of millions of pounds, he once offered: "Have I built myself a pyramid, you mean?"
And 20 years or so ago, he told a very funny story about his own well-known obsessive-compulsive tendencies.
It was about the new house he and then-wife Lisa had bought, in which fountains had been installed in the rose gardens. When these were first turned on, Dennis said, he was horrified to see that they came on row by row, instead of all at the same time.
This wouldn't do, he told the garden designer. They had to come on all at once. "But Mr Dennis," responded the designer, "it will cost thousands to start again, install all the necessary pumps and so on." Dennis said he didn't care. It had to be done. He couldn't look at it the way it was.
Yet his condescension and patronising attitude could take your breath away and he has made a lot of enemies along the way.
To journalists, he would publicly pride himself on his oft-repeated claim that he would be economical with the truth but not actually lie to you. Yet sometimes he did.
In the late 1990s, I had found out that Mercedes were about to buy a significant but still minority shareholding in McLaren and went to Dennis to verify it. "Who's your source?" he asked me. When I told him I would not reveal it, he said I should get a new one because this one was wide of the mark.
Two weeks later, he stood up at Silverstone and announced that Mercedes had bought a 40% shareholding in McLaren.
When he was challenged about it, he initially tried to claim I had asked the wrong question, before eventually conceding that, yes, he had lied. "I had to," he said.
At Silverstone this year, I asked him what would happen when his contract ran out in mid-January 2017. He said: "Oh, don't worry about that. I've signed for another two years."