Brazilian GP: Has Max Verstappen joined the greats with stunning drive?
More than 900 Formula 1 races have been held since 1950, yet very few are rooted in the collective consciousness of fans.
Monaco 1984 is one, so is Donington 1993. Then there's Barcelona 1996, Silverstone 2008 and Nurburgring 1968. All wet-weather races. All exceptional.
Mention these grands prix to F1 devotees and they will nod approvingly, because these were occasions when a driver delivered something remarkable that marked him out as a cut above his peers.
In the case of Brazil 2016, we may well have another entry to that list - and the man responsible was a 19-year-old named Max Verstappen.
"We witnessed something very special," Red Bull team boss Christian Horner said of his driver. "The way he drove was outstanding. It stands out to me like Ayrton Senna in Monaco and other great drives in history."
High praise indeed for a man occupying the third step of a podium.
Verstappen dropped to 16th after a pit stop with 16 laps to go but fought back to finish on the podium in treacherous wet conditions.
Yet his drive was about more than this late climb through the field.
He also overtook Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen early on and produced a superb pass on Mercedes' Nico Rosberg to take second place midway through the race.
He would have finished there, behind winner Lewis Hamilton, had Red Bull not put him on intermediate tyres at a crucial point. The decision turned out to be an error and Verstappen had to pit again for extreme wet tyres, prompting his climb back.
He also rescued a huge spin on the pit straight, preventing the car from hitting the wall and managing to hold on to second. He said it was "50-50" between skill and luck.
Horner said: "His move earlier in the race on Rosberg was brave, skilful and totally courageous and later in the race the inter tyre looked like the tyre to be on.
"We could see others starting to go quicker and we took the gamble and then the rain just intensified slightly, particularly around Turn 12. We had to abort that and fit a new set of extreme and then it was over to Max."
Verstappen looked completely out of the picture when he pitted under the safety car for extreme wet tyres late on. But Red Bull knew what their man was capable of, and so did he.
"Can you make your way through the field on full wets?" came the question from the pit wall. Verstappen said he could and dived in for fresh boots.
What followed was hugely impressive, to say the least.
The midfield runners were swiftly dispatched and, within a couple of laps, Verstappen was up to 12th place. That became 11th when he passed the Williams of Valtteri Bottas, while team-mate Daniel Ricciardo had no answer either as the teenager moved back into the points.
Listen: Verstappen grabs third with daring overtake
Daniil Kvyat was next, then Esteban Ocon's Manor and the Sauber of Felipe Nasr.
Nico Hulkenberg? No problem. Sebastian Vettel? Done in a few corners. Verstappen even rudely ran the Ferrari off the track for good measure.
Carlos Sainz was his next victim as he moved into fourth, and then came the podium-clinching move on Sergio Perez - a gutsy, around-the-outside pass at Turn 10 that he completed in Turn 11 having corrected a big slide on his way through.
The Mercedes were too far up the road to do anything about, but Verstappen had made his point. Thirteen places made up in 16 laps. Job done.
"It was a lot of fun, with some scary moments," Verstappen said. "I was a bit disappointed after the last pit stop, but I kept my head down and just kept pushing and I went for it. To come back on to the podium was amazing.
"It was crazy. I thought 'now my race is over'. But the car was great. We had great grip. All the race we had good pace. We could have definitely fought for second but to come back in such a style is also a lot of fun."
Verstappen said it was "one of" his best races and his "best ever" in the wet. But he said that his win in the Spanish Grand Prix in May would have a bigger place in his heart.
"Barcelona will always be better because it is a race victory but to come back from 16th felt like a race victory."
What they said
Nico Rosberg on Verstappen's amazing half-spin: "I arrived in the straight and saw him pointing 90 degrees towards the wall - I was thinking, 'what the hell?!'"
Jos Verstappen, Max's father, who started 106 Formula 1 races: "I have never seen something like this, he has surprised even me. I have seen many races he did, but today it was incredible. He did himself proud. It is what we want to see more of in F1."
Mercedes team boss Toto Wolf: "It was the Verstappen show. It was really unbelievable driving, great entertainment. Physics are being redefined."
Mercedes non-executive chairman Niki Lauda: "Verstappen was outstanding, the way he passed everybody so it was an interesting race. I knew the guy is good but he proved to everybody what he can do."